# P5(R) Main Story
## 06/09
Ah, where are my manners? My name is Goro Akechi.
Oh, am I mistaken? I thought I heard something about delicious pancakes...
## 06/10
I may not seem like it, but I sometimes wish that Santa Claus actually existed. Although if he did, I'd have to arrest him for breaking and entering.
But hypothetically speaking, if these Phantom Thieves are real... I believe they should be tried in a court of law.
What the artist Madarame did truly was an unforgivable crime. However, they are taking the law into their own hands by judging him. It is far from justice.
More importantly, you should never forcefully change a person's heart.
I have to say though, I would be embarrassed if it turns out these Phantom Thieves don't exist. If that were the case, I'd summarize it into a report as a school project.
To paraphrase Hegel, advancement cannot occur without both thesis and antithesis...
Few people around me are so willing to speak their minds as freely as you did earlier.
Adults are only interested in using the young, while they simply do as the adults say. There are too many irresponsible people in these modern times.
Since they have special talents, I assume their hearts must be burning with a sense of justice and duty... But that justice is merely a façade concealing their lack of true strength.
You really are intriguing. I bet you'd make for a worthwhile debate partner on the subject.
I sense something in you that's quite different from other people. I guess you can call it my detective's intuition? Haha, kidding, of course.
## 06/13
I see now that there's no need to be so roundabout with my responses. Talking with you helps me realize many things.
I suppose it is best to simply be yourself and say what you think. You've given me much to consider.
## 06/17
...Oh, sorry. I'm getting lost in my own head...
## 06/12
Compared to people who manipulate others' hearts as they see fit, I believe I'm on the side of justice. Besides, I'm only using my natural-born talents for the sake of serving the world. Don't you think the same about yourself too?
Common sense can get in the way at times when pursuing the truth. Many details become logical if I think on the premise that they do exist.
Phantom thieves that use calling cards and succeed in their crime... As the so-called "Charismatic Detective," it'd be hard for me not to see them as my rivals.
## 07/11
Presenting oneself in a favorable light is nothing surprising. More surprising is just how innocent you seem to be.
I didn't mean to start an argument. I just can't help myself sometimes.
## 07/20
The influence of The Phantoms knows no bounds... I underestimated it, honestly.
## 07/24
Well, because I'm a psychic, of course. Haha, I'm only joking. In truth, I'm a rookie detective.
...My profiling of the Phantom Thieves has led me to believe the yare a group of juveniles. They have a relative amount of free time after school a hideout to slip away to.
Hm? I wasn't anticipating that response. You always find a way to rise above my expectations. You really are an intriguing one.
I bet we'd make a great team if we worked together. *chuckle*
## 07/29 (aquarium hangout)
Are you free today? Would you like to join me at the aquarium?
I suppose it is rather famous as a good place for dates. I'd never have guessed you were such a romantic, though.
## 08/28
It seems I'm unwelcome no matter where I go.
Apparently, my mother was in a relationship with some low-life of a man... She was swiftly discarded when he learned she was pregnant... That despair would lead to her death. Thanks to him, I was passed from foster home to foster home. But, I do quite well by myself these days.
Mm, this is delicious. You get to drink this coffee every day? I'm incredibly jealous.
I believe that fate brings people together. It's strange, but talking to you is thought-provoking.
## 09/02
Thank you for the coffee last time. It’s a lovely cafe. I haven’t relaxed that much in a while.
Those unfortunate students were made victims all because adults valued their own conveniences... This is unforgivable, no matter the reason.
## 09/06
You're not interested...? Are you the type to go against the trend?
## 10/24
Welcome home.
You're back awfully late.
I knew there was something special about you, ever since the first time we met. I feel as though I could tell you anything during our conversations.
## 10/25 (takoyaki incident)
I grew tired of the baseless rumors they kept bringing up, so I escaped to where there weren't any people.
Let's just call this my performance fee.
Mmm, it's quite deli— ...HNNNGH!?
Ngh... My throat...! Urgh! This is...! Ohhh... Oh, my stomach... it burns!
I-I-I'm... I'm fine! I just love... uh... spicy— spicy stuff... Haha... hah...
W-Well then... I'll... I'll see you... uh... t-t-t-tomorrow.
## 10/26
I'm sure you all would've been happier to have a singer or a mascot appear, wouldn't you say?
I'm not used to being the one interrogated... so please go easy on me.
And if— This is all hypothetical, mind you. If the Phantom Thieves are the ones I know of, I can't possibly imagine they would kill anyone.
Please, let’s not feign ignorance. All of you can go to that other world too, yes?
"I can't die here... I need to determine the truth..." When those thoughts overcame me, I awakened to that power—a most fortunate accident.
The justice I uphold will not tolerate criminals who kill people at their leisure.
Well, you don't have to decide at the moment. Considering this is you we're talking about, I believe you'll come to a favorable reply.
I'm glad we could talk. It's been a while since I've been able to spend such a meaningful time like this.
Please don't troll me online for this interruption, okay?
## 10/28
Because of sickening human beings... Yes. My contempt for such people drives my sense of justice. It isn't some grand reason like society's sake or some lofty ideal. It's simply an absurd grudge... and extremely personal.
## 10/29
And, we should probably get going soon. After all, people like us standing around here is quite unnatural.
So the calling card wasn't merely for show? It's a necessary step!?
M-My apologies.
Come now, there's no need for hostility. I will simply have to come to Leblanc every day in that case.
## 10/30
It may sound somewhat odd for me to say this, but I am an exceptional detective. I assure you, I will catch this culprit. Look forward to it.
## 11/07
A normal person would never do such a thing. They would have no reason to callously murder your principal.
Are you implying they kill for the sheer pleasure of it?
There would be no motive for them to carry out such a cruel plot. Clearly our culprit is acting behind the scenes to accomplish some grand objective. He likely has accomplices. It is even possible that he is being controlled by someone.
## 11/20
Nobody would ever know if things got a little violent...
After all, if you wish to trick your enemies, you must first trick your allies.
That's right. You and your little friends were vital to our plan. And now, it will be completed.
Your popularity truly was quite stunning. That just made using you all the more worthwhile...
Case closed... This is how your "justice" ends.
Shido-san, my job is complete.
The continued deaths of these teenagers would be a bit much, don't you think?
We could say he stole the guard's gun and committed suicide during his imprisonment... How about that?
## 11/21
It's me, Akechi.
Prosecute the targets that I turned psychotic... and solve them as cases unrelated to you. And, thus, the charismatic ace detective was born.
Surely my story will be passed down as a hero who won against monsters that could control people's hearts.
## 11/23
Once they lost public support, someone they thought was their greatest enemy lent a hand... That's the same strategy used in romance, wouldn't you agree?
Getting captured must have wounded his pride irreparably. Such things often happen to insurgent leaders.
## 12/24
If they get their hands on the perpetrator, there'll be no need for him to turn himself in, no?
Don't worry. I'm the real deal.
To think I'd get to see you so surprised... Honestly, it's pretty satisfying.
You're overthinking this. I have no hidden agenda at this point.
If I had to explain myself, I'd say it's simply personal principle that I repay my debts.

# P5R Main Story - Third Semester
## 01/02
We have greater concerns right now. In fact, I'm a bit offended you think so little of me that you expected me to be dead.
For the time being, you seem to be the only one who's still in their right frame of mind.
I should get to the point. ...Let's make a deal. What say we join forces on this?
You know, that's uncharacteristically cautious of you. I don't believe we have the time for such an approach here.
For the time being, you and I share the same goal. To solve this problem, don't you agree that it'd be safer for us to partner up?
Allow me to remind you that we are equals in this endeavor, understand? ...Anyway, let's get to the matter at hand.
Can you tell me what happened after... parting ways with me in Shido's Palace?
...Do you even understand what the word "cooperate" means?
Now that we've made ourselves a new deal, you wouldn't turn me down, would you?
We just happened to be together when he got your call.
First, a dead woman returns, and now a Palace appears... How intriguing.
Allow me to stop you there—I'm not a part of the Phantom Thieves.
Yoshizawa-san aside, there's no reason for me to uphold the pretense of a righteous, sincere Detective Prince.
Sorry, but we're going to pass through there now. We don't have time to waste on peons like yourself.
Ha! It's been quite a while... Nothing gets me quite as excited as this.
Fine by me... Time for a bloodbath!
What say we save the idle chatter for later and keep moving? Unless teaming up with a "ruthless sort of person" is too much for you to handle.
...I've had enough of your high-and-mighty rationalization. All you really did was use her to try and make everyone acknowledge the validity of your research.
And you assume we'll buy into your brainwashing and just live in the palm of your hand? Honestly, that sounds absolutely revolting.
Time to fight. Are you ready? Keep up—and don't embarrass me.
## 01/08
It seems that Okumura and Wakaba are both considered alive by all accounts. They aren't mere illusions, or cognitive beings—they truly are alive and existing in this world. In fact, their deaths seem to have never taken place at all in this reality.
Basically, in this reality, you and I haven't committed any crimes. I don't understand how Maruki was able to distort reality to such extremes... But at the very least, he was being honest when he told us that he'd make such revisions—and rather convenient ones.
That's quite the funny joke. It makes me want to puke.
Remaining in this Maruki-revised reality means living under his thumb forever... And I refuse to live like that. I'll be the one to choose my path. That's how I've lived up to now, and it's going to continue from here 'til the end.
...But what about you? You saw them for yourself, didn't you? Your friends seem to have taken a liking to Maruki's version of reality. Don't tell me you've changed your mind after seeing them...
Silence, huh? If you're going to run from this, please tell me as soon as possible. I don't want any unexpected complications popping up.
## 01/09
Joker! I'm going to shut that thing up. Give me a hand!
Heh, not bad for an improvised technique.
The combination move we pulled off before... That wasn't half bad.
No... Ren, please tell me you're not serious...
I could take care of it for you right now... But you'd prefer her to leave here alive, right? Just hurry up and end this.
What the hell... This so-called "kindness" of his disgusts me. Let's do this quick.
There's no need to be defensive. Had I wished to kill you all, I would've simply done so already.
I'm up against someone with the power to distort reality as we know it. The more allies on my side, the better. If we all share the same goal, shouldn't we join forces and improve our odds?
## 01/11
As long as you maintain an air of confidence, you can fool just about anybody into thinking you belong.
Looks like you all walked right into the spider's parlor.
You're willing to ask me as well? *sigh* Fine then. You know I have no intention of accepting Maruki's world, anyway.
## 01/12
I'm surrounded by absolute fools...
That's fine and all, but don't hold us back, either. If you push yourself harder than you're capable of handling, you'll endanger everyone on your side, too.
## 02/02
...And that matters how, exactly? Don't tell me you think dangling my life before us is going to have any impact on our decision.
...I will carve my own path for myself. I refuse to accept a reality concocted by someone else, stuck under their control for the rest of my days.
So what? That's the path I chose.
Don't ask such stupid questions after all this time.
All you have to do is stick to your guns and challenge Maruki. Or, are you really so spineless that you'd fold over some bullshit, trivial threat on my life?
Do you think I'd be happy with this? Being shown mercy now, of all times? I don't want to be pitied—this isn't something I'm debating with you!
Your indecisiveness on the matter is essentially a betrayal of my wishes.
Then you already know what needs to be done.
...I want to hear you say it aloud. What do you intend to do?
I won't wait a moment longer. Answer me.
I will never accept this form of reality. I'm done being manipulated.
Let's go back... to our true reality.
What's a life worth in a reality that was cooked up just to satisfy someone else? I say none.
...Well, I have your answer.
There's nothing left I can say. Our deal's off.
## 02/03
This is where his self-obsession ends. ...Let's go.
Enough of this high-and-mighty bullshit! You're pissing me off!
We hesitate right now—we die!
I'm a bit occupied, so do your goddamn JOB!

# P5(R) Sae's Palace
Nothing the Phantom Thieves do can ever be truly considered risk-free, after all.
Joker, you should act as our representative in this. There's no need to fear. You will certainly win.
This deal we made... was a great experience for me. To think that I, a detective, would act alongside the Phantom Thieves...
By no means. This shall be the end of our working together. That was part of our promise. You haven't forgotten, have you?
## Safe Room
Don't concern yourself with me― just focus on infiltrating the Palace.
If the public knew I was working alongside the Phantom Thieves, they'd be absolutely gobsmacked.
## Unused Poker Scene
All I can do... is wish you good luck.
Despite the common view that black cats are a sign of misfortune, some believe they bring good luck. I wonder which side of the coin you represent for me?
I wish to place my bets on your being a good luck cat.
## ???
Leading your team this far in search of an infiltration route... You are truly amazing...
Well, the next round will likely be the final stage. I look forward to our infiltration, Joker.

# P5(R) Shido's Palace
## Missed Deadline
...We discovered that there was no corpse in the morgue. What a surprise... To think you'd pull the wool over my eyes.
## Pre-Engine Room
None of these people know that I was an undesirable child. I wanted people to rely on me... I wanted to be needed... I devoted myself to my studies, acted as an honor student, and made my name as an ace detective.
And thanks to the Nav app and the Persona bestowed upon me by the gods... I managed to dispose of any who got in my way.
It did make me feel somewhat dizzy... Just a little though. Perhaps my mind was worked up due to the major task I had undertaken...
## Engine Room
You truly are interesting... Quiet, yet possessing the courage and determination to take action.
Under different circumstances, we could have been great rivals... or perhaps even friends.
You don't allow yourself to be enslaved by such things as human relations or past selves... And so, your heart is always free. The exact opposite of mine. To be honest, I'm envious...
I wonder why we couldn't have met a few years earlier, Ren...
But... it's no use talking in hypotheticals. That didn't happen in reality...
Joker... how could you be so successful while having such an idiot as your partner?
All this is to make Masayoshi Shido... my father... acknowledge me. Then exact revenge on him.
So I'm his bastard child. My very existence is nothing but a scandal... My mother's life turned for the worst after she had me... and died. I was a cursed child for her too.
Who cares? My targets were all doing the same damn thing in this eat or be eaten world. All I did was remove their evil from society. How is that any different from the Phantom Thieves?
Once he reaches the apex of his power and acknowledges me, I'm going to whisper in his ear... I will tell him the truth of who I really am! And that's when I—an utter disgrace to the world—will rule over him, I will prevail!
In just a few weeks, my plan would have come to fruition... but no, you just had to interfere!
Don't lecture me, you piece of shit...
I am going to personally thrust Masayoshi Shido into a living hell.
So, Joker... rest easy and die.
Even the feeblest existence can gain tremendous power once the chains on its heart are broken.
I didn't expect I'd be able to defeat you with those pawns. You have deceived me and escaped death, after all.
I wouldn't give up my chance to massacre you with my own two hands...!
*chuckle* So... neither of us had shown our true strengths, huh...?
Teammates!? Friends!? To hell with that! Why am I inferior to you!? I was extremely particular about my life, my grades, my public image, so someone would want me around!
I am an ace detective... A celebrity! But you... you're just some criminal trash living in an attic! So, how... How does someone like you have things I don't!? How can such a worthless piece of trash be more special than me!?
Is that supposed to be pity? You piece of shit!
Don't give me that cliché bullshit!
This argument is meaningless!
Ah... Just picturing it sends chills down my spine... What Shido thinks of me? Haha! I don't give a shit... All I care about now is killing you... to prove I'm better than you!
You're not satisfied with where we left it either, are you? Isn't this what you really wanted? You and I are going to strike and strike until one of us is dead! To hell with holding back!
...Friends? I don't need anyone like that!
Don't make me laugh! Justice? Righteous?! Keep that shit to yourselves! You and your teammates piss me off!
You're just... pieces of shit... who lick each other's wounds...!
Why are you... looking at me like that...!? I've... I've succeeded until now... all by myself...! I don't need... teammates... I don't...
...You're so lucky. Lucky to be surrounded... by teammates who acknowledge you.
And once Shido confesses his crimes, you'll all be heroes. As for me, people will find out my past deductions were just charade. My fame and trust will vanish.
In the end... I couldn't be special...
...Are you all idiots? You should get rid of me... if you don't want me getting in your way.
...You all are truly beyond my comprehension.
Haha... I was such a fool.
...Don't misunderstand. You're the one who's going to disappear!
The real fools... are you guys. You should have just abandoned me here a long time ago...
You would have all perished... if you had tried to face these with me weighing you down...
Let's make a deal, okay? You won't say no, will you?
Change Shido's heart... in my stead... End his crimes... Please!
Heh... After all this, that's what you have to say? Seriously, you really are...
So, my final enemy is a puppet version of myself... I...!

# P5R Maruki's Palace
Hear that? Any of you interested in "proper treatment"?
Oh, come on... Is the next question going to be "What's Maruki's favorite snack" or something?
We could just set up an ambush and destroy him once he steps in our trap, too.
## Safe Room
I realize resting is important every so often, but do we really have the time to relax?
Now we wait for the deadline... If there's anything you'd care to do beforehand, I'll tag along.
## Progression
Tch. You simpleton...
It's fine if you aren't worried, but you're gonna get burned if you get carried away.
If you're getting cold feet, speak up now. But if you do have the will to fight, then call an assembly at the hideout. We have to go to the Palace.
It's over for us if we don't change Dr. Maruki's heart. Don't show him mercy at the last second, okay?
...I'd rather die than live in a world full of fake happiness.
I'm not obligated to tell you. That's not part of our deal.
Never mind the future. Just focus on defeating Maruki for now. If we lose, a fate more humiliating than death will be waiting for us.
...Let's put an end to everything. I've had enough of this joke of a world.
It's almost February 3rd. I thought I warned you not to slow me down. We don't have much time. Let's get to the Palace quickly.
## ???
A warehouse, eh...? I bet there are plenty of— Well, that doesn't matter in the least right now.

# P5R Battle Quotes
## Pre-Third Sem
Checkmate.
My skills exceed yours!
Very well, there will be no survivors.
## Third Semester (including navigation quotes)
I can be merciful.
Let's do this, Joker...
I'm going to make its last moments on Earth its most painful...
Stand still, you little shit!
I do what I want.
I don't need your concern.
I'm getting a warm, tingly feeling from all this power!
Hm, you— I mean we… can do better.
Agh, we don't know shit about them! Just try different attacks.
That's two knocked down, but you can do more, can't you, Joker?
Damn, Joker! You wiped 'em out!
Get up, Joker! Do you wanna die!?
Joker, if you die now, I... I'll kill you again myself!
Hey Joker, instead of dying, how about we crush them together!?
What are you...!? Joker, get up!
Joker's enraged? I kind of like it, but it's not you! Calm down!
Joker's more brainwashed than a cult member! He can't tell friend from foe!
Joker's mind is muddled! He might do weird stuff while confused!
Zzz...
Aaiiee! I-I don't want to do this scary shit anymore!
You're all my enemies! No, I am NOT brainwashed!
Guys... don't you see? There's no hope... we're going to die here...
Persona? What's that? Damn, I can't remember...
Uh... Where am I?
This one just got betrayed by its teammate! Ha, imagine how that feels!
Three enemies eliminated at once! That was rather enchanting.

# Jazz Jin
## Pre-Third Sem
A long time ago, a girl from another class confessed her love for me... Oh, this isn't me bragging by the way. At the time, the only thing on my mind was how exactly I was going to turn her down.
I'm terrible, aren't I? I think so too. But, I have something that I must do...
I'm so happy that I'm here talking with you again. Isn't this jazz club nice?
I like how not a lot of people really know this place... Heh, does that sound like I'm showing off?
This place is like your house. It's not the greatest, but you still end up feeling so comfortable.
I enjoy talking with Sae-san. Not only is she smart, but she's upfront. When I tell her that I want to eat at a traditional sushi restaurant, she says, "Only if it's the conveyer belt kind." Someday, I've got to treat Sae-san to some traditional sushi...
But honestly, regardless of how the food tastes, I think the most important thing is whether or not my wants can be satisfied. So if I want to eat a meat dish, I wouldn't want sashimi... Then again, I suppose an adult does need to keep up appearances.
With trains, your activities are limited to where the stations are, right? But with a bicycle, you can go wherever you want. The only downside would probably be rainy days. I feel so unlucky whenever I get caught in a sudden downpour.
I get told a lot that I usually have a poker face on TV, or that I'm always smiling... I'm not a robot or anything—I'm a human, like everyone else. So of course there are times when I get angry.
Speaking of which, that takoyaki I had at your school festival... it was, um... delicious...
When I go to school, I never know what to talk to my classmates about. All they want to ask me about is show business...
It's not that I specifically want to go on TV. It's just that talk shows are convenient for sorting through my own thoughts.
I must say though... I enjoyed the segment we did in June. It was refreshing to have someone object to my opinion so openly.
The time I spend with you is so meaningful. Oh, and there's something else I wanted to talk to you about...
## Third Semester
It feels good being able to fight with everything I have, even in front of all of you. Not like how I was before.
I don't mind acting under a fake personality, but nothing beats being able to act freely...
Of course, I do intend to act in the spirit of a team. I'm not going to go off and start trouble on my own.
What, you like this place that much? I guess I understand how you feel.
In all honesty, I wasn't sure if teaming up with you again would work out. This may not apply to you, but... I'm sure there are others among the Phantom Thieves who hate me.
I'm glad you're still normal, even in this bizarre situation. If you'd lost it too... Well, if that happened, I would have slapped you awake.
The world appears normal, yet there is a growing distortion that cannot be overlooked. It's rather discomforting. Like when a fish bone gets caught in your throat. It's still okay while you can feel the pain, but if you are unable to even feel that...
...You once defeated me at my full strength. I won't accept you losing to someone else.
When you see someone you thought you knew, but their personality changed into something completely different... That's not funny at all. It's disturbing. But for some, that change is a blessing... I can't comprehend it at all.
The concept of happiness is a recurring topic in philosophical discussions. What if an individual's happiness doesn't align with the group's? If their happiness hinges on the group's unhappiness?
You know, with everyone else having their minds controlled, I thought I was special. But maybe that isn't the case. Maybe I just think I have free will, but I'm actually still acting according to Maruki's will... That would be pretty laughable.
But I'm not going to just stop thinking because of some unprovable theory. I'm going to keep resisting.
Why do adults feel the need to exert control...? Is it so that they can feel strong? Or to assert that they're in the right?

# Confessional
## Pre-Third Sem
This is a confessional, isn't it? Your sudden summons surprised me, but... Have I done something to offend you?
## Third Semester
Is this... a confessional? You summon me out of the blue and ask to meet here... You're quite the character.
Good grief... This again?

# Darts(?)
...We're going again. You can't let it end like this, can you?
You're pairing up with me? I'll do my best not to drag you down.
You're pairing up with me? I'm flattered. I'll do my best.
## UNUSED
*chuckle* Is that a challenge? Very well, I shall answer your lofty expectations.
I appreciate it. I tend to get distracted if it's too loud.
What the hell does that even mean...
...Don't look at me like that.
I don't need you to tell me that. I'm always calm.

# Leblanc
Welcome home, Amamiya-kun. I hope you don't mind that I'm intruding on your home again.
...Oh, perhaps I was a little too honest the other day... but it was all true. Let's duel again after this mission. Next time, no holding back.
You still owe me a duel, too. So we have to make sure we finish that mission.
I find this place quite calming. I feel as though I can cast off my detective mask and return to my true self when I'm here. It helps that Boss treats me as any other customer as well.
Ah, sorry to intrude. I simply happened to be passing by, and had an urge to drink a cup of fine coffee here.
Ah, it's you. My apologies. I was submerged in my thoughts and lost track of the time. I'm sorry for staying here so late. I will be leaving soon.
You know, I have felt quite fulfilled lately. It is almost surprising to feel such emotion. I suspect that is due to the fact that I have rarely cooperated with like-minded peers in the past.
I seem to be making myself at home here once again. It's been hard to find a place of comfort recently.

# P5R Thieves Den
Am I the only sane person here?
By the way, the real Captain Kidd was publicly executed. They left his body hanging there for years on end.
Ha. And? It's their fault for being stupid enough to fall for the act.
He nearly ruined your lives, right? You should have gotten even and taken everything from him... including his life.
Rather than letting him live out the last few years of his pitiful life, why not put him out of his misery?
Is that so? Well, you stop feeling things once you get used to it.
So... It appears you made good on our deal. Don't expect any thanks, though. If you hadn't interfered, everything would've gone exactly as I'd planned.
No matter the rationale, it doesn't change the fact that he was a rotten piece of shit of a father. Besides, I have no interest in wasting time empathizing with him after all he put me through.
You worked so hard for the sake of others, only to find out they didn't want your help. I'm sure even you must have lost faith in humanity at that point.
So, this is the Shadow that stalks Mementos... Is it the root of all human fear? A core desire of the id? A warning from the superego of Mementos? I suppose it could be many things, but in the end, this is all mere speculation.
You're so naīve. Trying to be a good person only gets you taken advantage of. You'd be a perfect target for scammers.
With this much attention on me, I need to constantly consider how the audience and media will interpret my words.
Sometimes, calling an idiot an idiot is the kindest thing you can do.
## UNUSED
Complain all you like, but this is who I am. I'm not going to change back.
You should be more upfront about your feelings. Then again, I suppose you are who you are.
How nostalgic... It makes me sick to remember that day. I can't believe I was so thoroughly tricked.
Personas are part of your personality, correct? Why don't you try acting like someone you're not?

# P5R Confidant
## Gifts
Hahaha, you truly are intriguing. Never would I have imagined that you'd give me this sort of gift—though I do admit, my public life does make it a useful one.

## RANK 2
I'm rather dextrous with my right hand. I can even use chopsticks with it. Frankly, I didn't expect you to see through it.
I think you'd be an interesting influence on me. If you're so inclined, we could go out again sometime.
As in, people I'd actively choose to see in my free time? If that's what you mean, then no, I suppose I don't have many.
Interesting. It's a nice idea... I'd like to try a match where I don't have to hold anything back.
If you ever manage to win against me using my right hand, then I will face you with everything I have. You have my word.
## RANK 3
As far as I'm concerned, anyone in my company must meet their standards of intelligence and attractiveness... If not, well, they take it to social media, denouncing and harassing the people in question. I wouldn't wish that on you. But you? I expect you'll pass muster easily.
Well, I don't hate sweets, but I'm not exactly partial to them...
Uh-oh. Looks like I've been spotted.
A shame I don't have glasses like you. Maybe I would have been able to get out of this situation.
Huh? Hey, what are you—!?
I suppose I'd better learn to watch what I say around you.
Is that so? Well, who else could make a peasant of the Detective Prince?
Well, you saved me. I daresay such crude means would never have occurred to me...
Haha... Are you familiar with the legal right of portrait? Or privacy, perhaps?
Hello. It's a shame our discussion was interrupted today... I was rather enjoying having a breather with you.
It was an interesting experience, but... I definitely don't want to go through that ordeal ever again. I saw firsthand what happens when I'm too careless with my words around you.
...You have a twisted concept of "fun."
Any interest in becoming my stunt double? You can dress up as me. You and I aren't terribly different in height. I'm sure my clothes would fit you.
If we do this, it'll have to be carefully planned, of course. I'll be dictating everything, from hair to accessories.
Nobody would notice the switch, I'm sure. We proved it today—most people can't see beyond the superficial.
## RANK 4
There's a place I'd like to show you. It's a bit of a hole-in-the-wall, but I'm fond of it. We should be able to relax there, at least. That incident last time won't happen again.
There was a place I wanted to visit with you, but what do you think? It's a special place for me. I'm hoping you'll like it too...
Work and obligation take me to quite a few restaurants and cafés, but this place is a little more special to me. I guess you could call it my go-to place.
Though I have to say, I'm envious. You must be quite well-stocked on coffee and curry.
Even my efforts in cooking class have been underwhelming. In particular, an attempt to fillet a fish went... poorly.
I usually come here when I need some time to really think on my own. So chatting with you here is really quite refreshing.
You know, you're the first person I've ever brought here... It's not like I was keeping it from anyone, but... I suppose it goes to show we do have some strange connection.
Certainly the point of jazz is all those jam sessions. A sea of improvisation, both complex and organic... As each player incorporates their own flavors, a natural melody is born from the chaos.
There's something about that strange, erratic synchronicity... It's a euphoria like when I manage to solve a case.
Well! I'm glad I brought you along, then. I thought I'd have more luck if I brought someone who I know can keep up with me intellectually.
Jazz is a deep and complex style. I'd love for us to sit down and really talk about it sometime.
Ah, I should let you go... Somehow I always end up talking more than usual when it's with you.
## RANK 5
Ah, you noticed? Well, I'll need as much practice as I can get if I'm going to take you out.
What, did I have that much of a scary look on my face?
I had a toy gun like this when I was young, you know. All this reminded me of running around the house with it, playing hero...
There are different kinds of heroes, of course. Different stances they define themselves by. For example, one may stick to the justice they believe in, even if others deny it. While another may simply do as others desire of them, seeking to be recognized and gratified as a hero.
But if nobody else wants the justice they fight for, isn't that just blind self-righteousness?
I suppose if you're fighting for a justice nobody really wants, then it's just blind self-righteousness in the end.
Ah sorry, I suppose that was a strange tangent... Pardon me. Whenever I talk to you, I just can't help delving into these abstract topics...
Goodness, I worked up a sweat playing that game. I must smell like the arcade now... I could use a shower. Why don't we call it a day?
I suppose I've always been quick to grasp the fundamentals of anything... but that's also been a concern for me.
There's this... constant pressure. Everyone expects me to be capable of anything, which is stressful in and of itself.
Haha, you don't hold back, do you? And you're surprisingly competitive, too. I suppose if you're that worked up, it means you truly don't want to lose to me.
I didn't know you had a side like that... I'll accept a rematch anytime.
...Still, games are rather fun. It was quite a novel experience... Usually, I just read in my leisure time.
Usually I really struggle with enjoying the same pastimes as my peers, but thanks to you, I had fun today.
## RANK 6
Of course, these days I'm the Detective Prince, but my family situation was... well, complicated.
By the time I was old enough to realize it, my father was already gone. My mother was all I had.
My mother worked at a nightclub. Whenever she had to bring a man home, she'd send me off to the local bathhouse.
It's in the past. I have no reason to blame her either. The only one who deserves blame is my father. The worthless, degenerate excuse for a man who abandoned my mother. I wanted to force him to finally give her the apology he owes her. But... that's no longer possible.
Sorry. I didn't mean for our conversation to get so depressing.
Oh, I'm just getting warmed up. Don't go overheating, now. I wouldn't want you to collapse on my account.
Oof... I think I feel a little lightheaded.
Haha, I thought so. Your face is bright red, you know.
I've never told anyone else about my family situation, either. I wonder why I told you? Curious indeed.
Now that you mention it, maybe we are pretty similar deep down... We're both victims of the adults who unfairly impacted our lives.
This probably isn't a conversation we should be having naked. Let's get dressed, shall we?
You really do things at your own pace, don't you? I suppose that's one of our differences.
But perhaps that's simply the strength not to be bothered by others' perceptions. In which case... I'm a little envious.
...Though we could always see who changes faster. First to leave wins. Are you ready?
Between the delicious coffee and the bath, I finally managed to relax. So... thank you.
It's nice to spend the day as Goro Akechi for once, rather than the Detective Prince. You know?
I don't know if it's because of the whole Prince image, but everyone seems to think I'm some brilliant prodigy. It's really nothing like that. But people always seem to misunderstand.
If they saw how I was acting today, perhaps they'd say I wasn't acting like the Detective Prince.
But I suppose you're the only one who sees that side of me. Nobody else particularly needs to, anyway.
Haha... I suppose there's a certain appeal to that gap, isn't there?
Oh, I didn't mean for that to sound negative... I'm sorry if I offended. If anything, I envy you. You fit right in with the retro vibe back there.
Honestly, though... I just can't figure you out, no matter how I try. You and I have common ground in some aspects, but in others, we're total opposites. It's intriguing. The more I get to know you, the more it makes me think. I wonder why that is.
## RANK 7
Even if I only have a little time, I'd like to spend it with you.
And the most interesting part is that it has so many parallels to a theoretical "perfect crime".
You eliminate your target without ever directly connecting yourself to it. I don't suppose that rings any bells?
Everything that happens around us, every little inconsequential event, may simply be one ball striking another. But there's no guarantee that the ball can be precisely controlled.
And despite the player's best intentions, the ball may strike many unrelated obstacles in its path. Even then... do you still intend to play this game?
We are both victims of unjust adults. And now, we have the will and power to rise up against them.
But even that united front will soon end. And after that, everything will return to the way it was, no?
Why not join me instead...? All you'd have to do is abandon the teammates you have now.
I'd advise you don't say these things without their due consideration. You shouldn't make promises that you can't keep, anyway.
*chuckle* You truly are intriguing.
I think a relationship of equals suits us better than being co-conspirators, anyway... No matter what else may change.
In any case, what you just said carries great weight. Remember what you decided, and don't run from it. All right?
Your competitive spirit definitely deserves praise. You really were terrible at first, but you caught up to me in no time... I have to ask—why do you get so competitive against me?
Neither of us can afford to lose, because we fight in service of our principles. And that is precisely why... I cannot allow you to change. As you are now, as you think now... I cannot allow you to win over me.
## RANK 8
Remember what I told you? If you ever won against me using my right hand, I'd take you on with everything I've got.
Your insight allowing you to determine my dominant hand, your quick wit, and most of all, how fast you've grown... You've exceeded my expectations in every way. Thus, I've built up this urge to duel you without holding anything back.
You won't be able to defeat me unless you actually fight with lethal intent. Now, show me your true skills.
Make sure that you come at me with the intent to kill me this time.
It seems I've bested you—that is, if you were truly giving that fight your all.
Honestly, that was disappointing. Was that truly the limit of your capabilities?
...Maybe I've misjudged you all this time. I really wish you weren't such a disappointment to me...
Anyway, I'll continue to wait in Shibuya from tomorrow on. If you want a rematch, I'll accept as many times as you please. That is, if you're up to the task.
...If I'm to truly win, I want to defeat you at your full strength. So if you'd like a rematch, I will accept.
In all honesty, I'd love to see just how far we can go...
But, we have an important mission coming up. Until that's finished, you're a vital ally to me.
As allies fighting alongside one another, your strength truly is reassuring. In all honesty, it's to the point that I'd be relying on you in a pinch.
I'm going to be entirely honest with you: I hate you.
Your deft handling of your unfortunate circumstances, your uniqueness, your ability to surpass me—all these irritate me. You're the one person I refuse to lose to.
You really are— No, never mind.
I'll let you have this win today, but next time, I will be victorious. Let this be my proof.
There's a tradition in the West to throw one's glove at their opponent when demanding a duel. Should the opponent accept the glove, the duel is also accepted.
Make certain that you will never forget: I am the one who will defeat you.

# P5R: Third Semester Mementos
Pancakes... I don't want to hear that word again for a long, long time.
I enjoy spending time in Kichijoji. It's not very big, but there are plenty of trendy shops.
This place is immense. If there weren't train tracks everywhere, I'd bring my bike here.
Do you prefer my previous outfit or this one? Moving around's become much easier for me.
You think I'm frightening when I fight? Well, I'm afraid you're just going to have to accept it.
I meant to tell you, regarding Shido... Thank you for keeping your promise.
You may not like working with me, but I'm counting on your assistance until our goal is achieved.
If you're looking for a way to train your mind and your body, I highly recommend bouldering.
A world that panders to your every whim is so mundane. Where's the thrill if there's no competition?
## UNUSED
I don't mind attending school. Trying to figure out what the adults want me to say is sort of a game to me.
I feel incredible today! Put the pedal to the medal!
My Persona is craving prey... I can feel it.
Oh, don't mind me—carry on with your fun little chit-chat.
I'd say the code name Crow suits this outfit rather well, wouldn't you?
There was a long time ago where I wanted to be a hero. This laser gun is a memento from that period.
I've been so busy balancing school and detective work, there are times where I realize I've missed a meal.
Don't misunderstand me: I still haven't given up on defeating you.
I only went to Leblanc to keep an eye on you, but I must say, the coffee is quite excellent.

# P5D
I, Crow... shall dance for you!
What... just what are you, damn it!?
Who made you the special one!?
This is fun, right? FUN!
I don't believe it... what the hell are you?
What are you...? MONSTERS?!
Is that all you've really got? ...Ha.
Farewell... Let's meet again if we get the chance.
I won't lose... If I ever lost, I'd—!
Everyone look! It's a new high score!

# P5A
When you think about it, a detective is an ambiguous, uncertain thing. Don't you agree? Taken alone, there's no guarantee a detective will be valuable to society.
A couple of things are needed to be a detective. A tough case which only he can solve, and the existence of a worthy rival to make such a case.
What would you say if I asked you to be my assistant? I've been looking for a talented partner.
I can't help but to think the Thieves willfully tamper with people's minds. What if they become reckless? What if they began to control people to satisfy their own desires? It would be the end of the world.
And that's the end of my life story. Don't spread it around.
The man in the black mask. But I'm sure he's just a pawn to the true mastermind.
I'll be the one to save Ren. I can sneak into the police building and get him out in secret. Hearing that so suddenly may surprise you, but there's no other way. Trust me and let me handle it.
This may be different from what the world would call an act of justice... But Ren and I made a deal.
I will stick to the justice that I believe in now. I hope you can understand.
Sorry it took me so long. I'm here to rescue you. Is that what you thought I'd say?
No! Don't look at me like that! In what way are you any better than me?
Get going, you white knights.
What's wrong? Get up. It's too early for checkmate, isn't it?
## Proof of Justice OVA
Sorry for not living up to your expectations. I've never been familiar with cooking. Frozen meals have always been enough for me ever since I was little.
Oh well, you save time and effort by using whatever's convenient, anyway. I use the extra time to study, and it's efficient.
First and foremost, I didn't want to rely on anyone else. After my mother died, I was passed around my relatives. That's why I wanted the means...

# P5T: Repaint Your Heart DLC
And so you know: attempts at manipulation put me in a bad mood.
That's quite an amusing joke. Well done.
Are you being serious right now...?
Are you serious? That's quite unlike you, being so slow on the uptake...
Heh, well, there's only so much I can deduce at this time, but thank you for the opportunity.
Oh? I must say, I didn't expect such an openly enthusiastic response. Ah, excuse me—I didn't mean anything by that. Of course, I'd be happy to teach you all about it.
...Haha! Goodness, you truly are the joker of the bunch. You know, kidding around too much can turn out poorly for one's health.
Well... I suppose it could happen. When it comes to the Metaverse, it seems anything is possible, ultimately.
Haha, well, if you're grateful, then thank our leader—even if I'd refused, he seems quite willing to lend a hand, regardless. After all, as a member of the Phantom Thieves, I need to respect my leader's commands.
Oh my, has this become a test for me? Well, believe me when I say I won't disappoint you.
Do you? I figured as much, despite not asking for your take on the matter.
It's quite the honor to receive your praise—I'll be sure not to disappoint you.
It sounds as if you've concocted a plan to eliminate those you can't understand... If I may be frank, you're highly delusional.
Collective amnesia's a pretty big deal, if you ask my opinion.

# Unused P5R Navigation Lines (Detective Prince)
You ARE Phantom Thieves, aren't you? And you can't do a better job of avoiding Shadows than this?
Why are you drawing the attention of all these Shadows?! Trying to make new friends or something?
You're still not turning back despite how bad it's gotten here?! You're either very brave or very stupid.

# Unused P5R Costume Dialogue
Joker... Why exactly did you have me change into my swimsuit? I understand that it grants better mobility, but... Surely it's common sense to not wear one here of all places?
This is the bartender's outfit, apparently. Sorry, but I can't serve any alcohol. I suppose I could serve you all juice... Either that or a soft cocktail. I know a good place in Kichijoji.
If you were a woman, I'd call you princess... but I suppose in this case, I'll call you Master.
What is it? Why are you staring at me like that...? I put on this outfit because you asked me to... But isn't this more like a clown outfit? Hey! I can see you laughing!
Having "HERO" on the hat suits me quite well, considering justice and all of that. Don't you think it's perfect for me?
I don't usually wear clothes like this, so I can't help but be a little embarrassed. But, I won't lose to you, not even in dance.
I am Phoenix Ranger Neo-Featherman, Feather Silver. Ah, this takes me back. I used to watch it when I was little. Funny in hindsight. It's always the team's most recent ally who seems to be the strongest of the bunch, isn't it?
Isn't this amazing? It may look strange, but it's actually quite comfortable. I'm surprised you could tell it was me. Or, wait... Perhaps you didn't recognize me after all?
I changed into my summer clothing. It was getting a bit hot. I left my necktie on, though. I still have to look like a gentleman.
These are my casual clothes. I'm usually hanging around adults, you see. That being the case, I tend to wear more mature clothing.
I suppose my casual clothing is more mature. It's important for detectives not to stand out too much.
I've changed outfits, but... what exactly is this? Since my head is bigger, the nose on my mask is heavier than expected... Please let me take it off.
Is that your clothing for the winter? Hm. It has a similar feeling to mine.
Hm? Is that... your swimwear? Well, as long as you're able to fight in that... It's a bit distracting, though. Just keep the messing around to a minimum.
I'm so used to seeing you in black, but you look nice in pale colors as well... I have to admit I'm a little jealous.
This might sound rude, but that outfit doesn't seem fit for a thief. It's more like what one would wear for lazing around.
Oh, Joker. You're in a butler outfit. If you're a butler, I suppose I'll ask you for something... Just kidding.
A Santa costume? What's gotten into you, Joker? I suppose letting loose is still important. Are you going to ask for what I want? Hmm... If that's the case... I'd like to continue competing against you.
Well, even if it's a dance competition, I won't lose. Even detectives should be able to dance elegantly.
Perhaps we should have a dance competition this time? Only kidding. I don't have much experience with dancing anyhow.
That's from Phoenix Ranger Neo-Featherman, correct? They're heroes admired by children, and despite its age, the show is still quite popular. But, you might want to consider cutting back on cosplaying. You're not a child anymore.
Joker, what are you wearing? I suppose it's a custom made costume, but it makes you seem quite different than usual. Actually, can you even see me in there? ...Joker? Heeey!

# Unused P5R Alternative Third Awakening Scene
This sure brings back some memories... It's been quite some time since we last got together like this.
Nostalgic, eh? You very well could be right. I'm remembering things that are a bit too bitter for me, though...
At any rate, I want to thank you about the deal we made on the "ship".
Boy, you're honest to a fault, aren't you?
For so, so long, I've wanted to crush him... but it seems you took care of that for me.
Sorry, but I don't see this as a favor to me—if anything, it's the exact opposite. After all, I lost my one shot at revenge.
Are you saying I'm being illogical with this? I'm well aware—I know this isn't the reaction I'd usually have... But it's how I feel, so there's nothing I can do about it.
Maruki may claim to be distorting reality so as to grant the wishes of society at large... However, that's still nothing more than the most convenient path to attaining his wishes... That's no different from Shido.
Your straightforwardness is quite aggressive... Actually, it's to the point of irritation. I genuinely cannot comprehend how you live your life like that.
You can drop the strange attempt at sympathizing with me. You don't call out the flaws in others, yet you lack any sort of resentment in them. I genuinely cannot comprehend how you live your life like that.
You still have my glove, right? Don't think I've forgotten about that. I simply can't lose to you again.

# Unused P5R Third Semester Mementos Request
Yes. It certainly sounds familiar, doesn't it? ...Oh, how could I forget? It's strikingly similar to your own circumstances.
Perhaps you can sympathize. After all, it's not too far removed from your own unfortunate story.
Oh, I know. Remember, I am a detective myself.
I have to say, though... It was astounding to see you all so ready to accept the victim as some blameless paragon of virtue.
This is my wake-up call to the rest of you. Not everyone has the luxury of being heroes of their own story.
If you let yourself trust other people that easily, that blindly, it's going to get you hurt someday.
These things happen all the time. It really shouldn't be that surprising. That's just the world we live in.
Didn't I just tell you? Nothing good can come of keeping faith in people who haven't earned it.

# Unorganized P5R (don't know/remember when exactly these were said, but they are for certain present in the game's script)
Stress is the enemy of beauty, you know.
Quite a find. Impressive. Perhaps you're more suited to be a detective than a phantom thief.
To think my presence on the team couldn't provide an adequate counterbalance to this problem...

# Unorganized P5R Third Semester
We have to do something about Maruki. Otherwise, the world is his to shape as he pleases. And I'd hate to see that happen. So stop wasting time and get yourself ready.
Don't we have something better to do than just hanging out? Your time would be much better spent on combat contingencies instead of idle chitchat.
Don't you have anything better to do than talking to me?
What, you came just to see me? Just the sort of brainless sentimentality I'd expect from you.
You really are a strange one. You do realize talking to me is a waste of valuable time, right?
All we can do is wait until the date Maruki gave us. Use that time to make your preparations. Understood?
Mind I propose a simple solution? Why study humans at all? Why not just give it up?
Maruki actually thinks he's saving people... Whereas the only thing he's doing is forcing his own desires onto people. And he calls it kindness... Sickening.
So those helmets are for nothing but brainwashing... If Maruki calls that "salvation," then I call him crazy.
I'm sure everything will be fine as long as we plan ahead... but for now, I'll leave all the decisions to Ren.
It's highly likely that Maruki will come meet you today. We're counting on you, Ren. No matter what he says... don't let him sweet-talk you into doing anything else, alright?
Just don't go tiring yourself out. If you waste all your energy out of combat, you're not just useless. You're a liability.